Google is spending $185 billion on AI
and it's still not enough. They just
told investors that's how much they're
spending on AI Infra, and the stock
dropped 7%. Not because Wall Street
thinks the number is too high this time.
It's because Wall Street is starting to
realize it might not be high enough. So,
Alphabet reported Q4 earnings on
February 4th, the same week a markdown
file erased $295 billion in enterprise
software market cap. The earnings
themselves, they were immaculate from
Wall Street's perspective. Revenue
exceeded $400 billion for the first time
in company history. Earnings per share
crushed it. Cloud revenue accelerated.
If you're an investor, it's everything
you want to see, right? By every
conventional measure, the company seemed
to be performing at the peak of its
powers. And then Sundar Pitchi announced
the capex number. Somewhere between 175
and $185 billion in one year in 2026.
That's roughly double the $91 billion
Google spent in 2025, which itself was a
74% increase over 2024. Analysts had
been expecting around $120 billion.
Google blew past that expectation by
50%. CFO Anat Ashkenazi broke down the
allocation. About 60% of that money pile
is going to servers and 40% is going on
data centers and networking equipment.
Sundar described maintaining a quote
brutal pace to compete on AI. I think
that word choice was very deliberate.
This is not a company making necessarily
a measured strategic investment,
although they'll probably portray it
that way. This is a company sprinting
because it believes the cost of slowing
down is existential. Now, you know, the
stock recovered most of its after hours
losses by next day's close. This is not
about the stock per se, but the initial
7% drop should tell you what the
market's instinct was before the
analysts had time to write notes.
185 billion sounds like too much money.
It sounds reckless. It sounds like a
company that has lost discipline and the
market's instinct is wrong. And the
speed at which it's becoming obviously
wrong. That's the real story. You know,
6 months ago, this was all a bubble. Do
you remember that? If you rewind to mid
2025, the dominant narrative in
financial media was that AI
infrastructure spending had just
decoupled from reality. Oldman Socks
published a widely cited research note
asking whether big tech was spending too
much on AI with too little to show for
it. Sequoia's David Khan wrote his $600
billion question analysis pointing that
pointing out that the total revenue of
all AI companies combined could not
justify the infrastructure being built.
Jim Cavell at Goldman called generative
AI overhyped. The list goes on and on.
This was the consensus. This was built
on real numbers. Training runs cost
hundreds of millions of dollars. Then
agents happened. Not the concept of
agents. People have been talking about
AI agents of course for years, but the
actual deployment of agents into
production workflows, consuming
absolutely massive amounts of inference
tokens and delivering value that was so
obvious the market has started to wake
up and can't ignore it anymore.
Anthropics Claude Co-work shipped
plugins that can triage legal contracts,
that can automate compliance reviews,
that can generate audit summaries. That
legal plugin is just 200 lines of
structured markdown and it wiped 16% off
Thompson Reuters. Open AAI is in the
game, too. They launched Frontier, an
enterprise agent platform, and signed up
HP, Intuit, Oracle, State Farm, and
Uber, all as launch customers, not for
demos, but for production deployment.
Coding agents at Cursor, Codeex, and
Cloud Code have crossed from useful
autocomplete, which was the joke at the
beginning of last year, to autonomously
generating thousands of production
commits in a single year. The agents
didn't just work. They consumed compute
at a scale nobody has modeled before.
Every agent running a contract review is
making dozens of inference calls. Every
coding agent generating a thousand
commits an hour, a real number, by the
way, is burning tokens continuously
around the clock at a rate that makes
chatbot usage look like a rounding
error. When you multiply that by
enterprisecale deployment across legal,
finance, engineering, compliance, the
inference demand curve just goes
straight up. It goes vertical. And just
like that, the narrative of the bubble
has flipped. Not gradually in weeks. The
question has stopped being, is AI
overhyped? It has started being, do we
have enough compute for what's about to
happen? $285 billion SAS apocalypse
wasn't just a repricing of software
companies. It was the market absorbing
in real time that AI agents are powerful
enough to restructure entire industries
and that the infrastructure to run those
agents at scale does not exist yet.
Derek Thompson captured the shift with
precision. The odds that AI is a bubble
declined significantly and the odds that
were quite underbuilt went up. He's
right. You cannot simultaneously believe
that AI agents are powerful enough to
crash enterprise software and also that
the infrastructure spending to support
those agents is excessive. You got to
pick one. I need you to understand how
big the scale of the bet is to
understand how wild it is that we might
be underbuilt. Google's not alone in
that giant capex spent. That's the first
thing to understand on spending even
more. They announced roughly $200
billion in 2026 capex. Microsoft is
running at about 145 billion annualized
metaguided to between 115 and 135
billion driven by its super intelligence
labs buildout. Even Oracle, which barely
registered in cloud infra a couple of
years ago, is deploying tens of
billions. Add it all up, the five
largest tech companies on Earth, are
going to spend somewhere close to $700
billion in one year on AI
infrastructure. Goldman is projecting
that's going to rise to well over a
trillion between 2025 and 2027. That's
probably conservative. These are numbers
that do not fit neatly into existing
frameworks for evaluating corporate
investment. And I think that's why
market reactions have been so wild.
Microsoft's capital intensity has
reached 45% of its revenue. Historically
absolutely unthinkable for a software
company. Amazon's capex has already
exceeded its total annual free cash flow
and forced them to tap the debt markets.
Google is about to spend more on
infrastructure in a single year than the
entire GDP of Ukraine. The natural
reaction is that this has to be a
bubble. That's what people assumed. And
for 6 months, that reaction was very
defensible on Wall Street. It isn't
anymore. And look, I'm not saying the
bare case was stupid. I'm just saying it
aged out. OpenAI's annual recurring
revenue hit 20 billion dollars in 2025.
Impressive, but that's the largest AI
company in the world, and its revenue
represents roughly 3% of the
infrastructure investment being made on
its behalf. The math doesn't come close,
which is what the bears have been
saying. Not this year, not next year.
Every previous infrastructure boom has
looked like this, spending wildly ahead
of revenue. And everyone has assumed
that's going to end in tears like it's
ended in tears before. But the
conclusion the bears drew died this
week. The SAS apocalypse is a proof of
demand. Not projected demand, not
theoretical demand, but revealed demand
priced by the market in real time. If if
AI agents generate $285 billion of
software cell conviction, we are
restructuring how enterprise economics
work in real time. And it's around AI
agents. And it's not just about market
reactions. Enthropic went from fewer
than a thousand business customers two
years ago to over 300,000 by September
of 2025, many more now, and they reached
44% enterprise penetration by January
2026. Open AAI's revenue has tripled.
Frier Sarah Frier, their CFO, says
enterprise now represents roughly 40% of
the business. And it's no coincidence
that the day after Google's capex
announcement, OpenAI launched Frontier,
an enterprise agent platform, and signed
up that list of who's who in the
enterprise business like Uber, like
Oracle as launch customers. The Bears
were making the right argument 6 months
too late. There just isn't space in the
world right now for bears that can't
recognize that token burn is going to go
up by a thousandfold. You know, every
major economic era begins this way.
Massive overbuilding of infrastructure,
investor panic, the infrastructure looks
like a catastrophic mass allocation of
capital. And then a few years later,
somebody figures out what the
infrastructure is actually for. The
railroads did this first, right? The
American railroad mileage doubled in
just 8 years between 1865 and 1873. And
that looked like way too much way too
fast. and five years of depression
followed because 121 railroads went into
bankruptcy and took out 18,000
businesses. But then a guy named Philip
Armor figured out refrigerated railroad
cars and suddenly you could ship fresh
meat from Chicago to New York and then
to small towns everywhere and suddenly
you had an application for railroads.
Fiber optics repeated that same pattern
a century later. Between 1996 and 2001,
telecoms issued over $500 billion in
bonds and laid 90 million miles of
cable. And then the bubble burst and the
wreckage was staggering. A trillion
dollars in debt were written off. 95% of
installed fiber went dark. And then
YouTube launched on bandwidth that cost
almost nothing. And then Netflix pivoted
from DVDs to streaming. The economy that
they enabled became the largest in human
history. the economy that they enabled,
the streaming, the cloud, the entire
modern internet, that became the largest
in human history. And it was all
underpinned by the commitment to fiber
in the 1990s. So that's been the
pattern, right? Massive investment,
crash, and discovery. But this cycle has
a structural difference that changes the
math and nobody's talking about it.
Railroads were dumb pipes. Fiber was a
dumb pipe. AI infrastructure is not a
dumb pipe. Google, Anthropic, OpenAI,
they're not really selling bandwidth.
They're not selling storage. They're
selling intelligence. Every inference
call is a purchase of cognitive
capability. The model is the product and
the infrastructure exists to serve the
model at scale. When an agent reviews a
contract or writes code or manages a
supply chain, the value it delivers
flows through the model provider's API.
The infrastructure and the intelligence
are vertically integrated in a way that
railroads and fiber never were. And this
means that companies building AI
infrastructure are positioned to capture
value from the applications built over
the top. Not just hosting fees, but an
actual share of the cognitive work those
applications perform. That is a very
different economic structure than any
previous infrastructure buildout. It
doesn't guarantee that any of these
companies are going to win, of course,
but it does mean the analogy to telecom
companies going bankrupt is kind of
misleading. The model makers are not
laying dumb cable. They're selling the
thing that makes all of our computers
valuable. Now, there's also an important
distinction in the AI infrastructure
conversation that most Wall Street
observers have been missing, and it's
the key to understanding why the bubble
to underbuilt narrative has flipped so
quickly. The first wave of AI infra
spending from 2023 out to mid 2025 was
primarily about training. Build those
massive clusters of GPUs. Train
foundation models. Training is
expensive, but it's also bursty, right?
You need a lot of compute for months and
then the model's done. The investment is
very front-loaded. This is the phase a
lot of the bears were analyzing when
they called it a bubble. But the phase
we just entered is about inference. It's
about running those trained models at
scale continuously for millions of users
and frankly millions of AI agents 24
hours a day. Now, inference is cheaper
per unit, but it never ever stops.
Agents change the inference math in a
way that nobody really priced in outside
of a few folks who were optimistic in
San Francisco. A human using Chat GPT,
they'll generate a modest inference
workload. an agent is going to generate
a thousandx a human workload if they're
reviewing contracts, if they're writing
code. You there's no way that you can
get anywhere close to par with a human
if you're an agent because of the pace
at which an agent executes. Now multiply
that thousandx gain by every workflow
the SAS apocalypse said was about to get
automated. Think about contract review.
Think about financial auditing. Think
about data analysis. Think about CRM
management and customer service. the
enterprises signing up for OpenAI's
Frontier for Cloud Co-work, they're not
thinking about it as we're deploying one
agent. They're deploying fleets of
agents. And that's why the narrative has
flipped so violently. Wall Street has
finally figured out that $650 billion or
$750 billion, whatever the number is
going to be this year, that's only
insane if you're building clusters for
chat bots and you're just training new
models. That's not how it works right
now. We are serving models for agents.
It's an entirely different world. And
the 6040 split that Google's CFO talked
about, Google understands this. They're
not building training clusters anymore.
They're building inference capacity for
a world where AI agents are the primary
consumers of compute. You don't build
60% servers and 40% data centers if
you're not in the inference business.
And even that framing understates how
big the gap is right now. Fijiimo,
OpenAI's CEO of applications, said
something this week that most people
glossed over. She said, "We spent months
integrating and we didn't even get what
we wanted. The CEO of applications at
the most valuable AI company in the
world said enterprise AI integration is
harder than expected. Not because the
models aren't great, but because the
infrastructure to connect AI agents to
enterprise systems is not mature enough.
The plumbing is not there where it needs
to be. The connectors aren't there where
they need to be. the security layers
aren't there where they need to be.
Demand is exploding, but it's way out
running the plumbing. And the plumbing
is what that 650 to700 billion is trying
to close. You know, every infrastructure
inversion has a window usually I don't
know half a dozen years, 3 to seven
years, call it, where the infrastructure
is being built and the companies that
will eventually use it are just getting
started. The companies that build during
that window end up becoming the
platforms and the companies that wait
become the tenants. Amazon built AWS
between 03 and ' 06 and had the dominant
cloud platform before most enterprises
even knew they needed one. The companies
that waited for cloud to prove itself
ended up paying Amazon's margins for the
next 20 years. That window is open now
on AI infrastructure, but the timeline
is compressed in a way that should
concern anyone who thinks they can wait.
Look, railroads took something like two
decades to overbuild before the economy
justified them. Fiber took a decade. AWS
took six. It's compressing. The current
cycle is moving at roughly 18 months
because the demand signal does not take
years to arrive. It arrives fast because
agents are developing that fast.
Google's $185 billion spend. It makes
sense when you understand that
compression. They're not spending too
much. They're spending at the pace
required to build the platform layer
before somebody else does. The same is
true for Amazon, for Microsoft, for
Meta. None of them can afford to wait
because the lesson of every prior
infrastructure inversion is that the
platform builders capture the economics
of everything built on the top. If you
miss that window, you're renting someone
else's infrastructure for the next
decade. The companies that look like
they're burning cash in 2026, the big
five, will look like they were laying
the foundation when we look back at
2028. And the companies that showed
quote discipline by spending less are
going to end up missing the most
important infrastructure buildout since
cloud. So where does this infrastructure
actually go? Who gets to run on it? The
answer requires taking the current
trajectory really seriously. And most of
us are not doing that because that
trajectory is profoundly uncomfortable
to our brains. Code proved to be the
breakthrough application for agents. And
the reason is worth understanding
because it tells you where we're headed.
Code is the one domain where an agent's
output is immediately and objectively
verifiable. You run it and it works or
it doesn't. That feedback loop is the
kind of iterative cycle that agents
excel at. There's no ambiguity, no
subjectivity. It works or it doesn't.
And that's why coding agents crossed
from useful to transformative so
quickly. Now, today coding agents work
in bursts. An hour here, a few hours
there, guided and directed by humans.
But the trajectory is really clear.
Context windows are expanding. Working
memory is multiplying. The ability of an
agent to hold a code base in its head is
expanding every few weeks, not years,
weeks. Opus 4.6 5x working memory versus
4.5 in just the space of a couple of
months. If that pace holds and there's
zero evidence it is decelerating, then
by the end of the year, we're looking at
agents that can do months of work. Think
about what that means for infrastructure
demand. in agent coding autonomously for
a month continuously generating and
testing and refining is consuming
inference compute at a volume that no
analyst model has properly accounted
for. We're just not good at exponentials
as humans and code is just the domain
where the feedback loop closed first.
Legal analysis is next. Contract review
has really clear success criteria.
Financial auditing is similar. Medical
diagnostics is similar. Engineering
design is similar. Domains where output
quality can be systematically evaluated
are domains where agents can cross from
useful to autonomous faster than people
are planning for. The infrastructure
that looks like an overbuild today is
going to look like it was sized wrong in
just a year or two here. The agentic era
is going to make everything we've spent
so far look like a little down payment
on what we need to spend. You know
what's interesting? This pattern is
fractal. Just as the infrastructure
inversion pattern plays out at scale
with these big model makers, it plays
out for all of us as individuals. And
the question it forces at each of those
scales is the same. What do you have
that's valuable when the infrastructure
shifts underneath you? Google is
spending $185 billion because they've
calculated that the cost of
underbuilding is existential. Not risky,
existential. They'd rather be wrong and
have spent too much than be right and
have spent too little. Your career works
the same way. And the question you need
to answer honestly is what human skills
survive when agents can code for months.
When they can review contracts, when
they can generate production quality
work at machine speed. I'm going to
suggest four things. First, everyone
talks about it, but we're going to get
into it. Taste. The ability to look at
what an agent produces and know not just
analytically, not just by checklist, but
by a hard one instinct whether it's
right, whether it's good, whether it
solves the real problem or a poorly
framed problem. Agents can generate
enormous volumes of competent output. We
will be drowning in competent output
before long, but they cannot yet tell
the difference between competent and
extraordinary reliably. They cannot tell
the difference reliably between
technically correct and strategically
right. The people who can make that
distinction, who have refined their
judgment through years of doing the
work, become exponentially more valuable
when the cost of generating options
drops to zero. Taste becomes a filter.
Number two, exquisite domain judgment,
not general intelligence. Agents are
going to have that in abundance. The
specific, contextual, hard to articulate
understanding of how a particular domain
actually works. The lawyer who knows
which clauses matter in the negotiation,
not just which clauses need to exist.
The engineer who knows which
architectural decisions are going to
create pain in 18 months or 30 years.
The executive who knows which market
signals are noise and which are
structural. This knowledge is
accumulated over years and encoded in
intuition that agents can approximate
but not yet replicate because it depends
on experience that is just not in the
training set. Phenomenal ramp is another
skill. the ability to learn fast when
everything is evolving fast, not I took
a course on AI. It's the kind of
learning where you're using the tools
daily, your mental model is updating
weekly, and you're comfortable operating
at the frontier of capability, even when
the frontier moved since last Tuesday.
In a world where Opus 4.6 can come on
the scene and everybody will be talking
about it and Codeex will follow 20
minutes later and then who knows what
drops next week, it's the ability to
absorb change at speed that matters.
That's a meta skill that makes all the
other skills usable. The humans who can
keep up with AI have an edge that just
keeps compounding. And last but not
least, we need relentless honesty about
where value is moving. This is the hard
one because it requires looking at our
own work and asking which parts of it
are really valuable and which parts an
agent could handle better, cheaper, and
faster. Most people don't want to do
this inventory. It can be heartbreaking.
It can be threatening. It can require
admitting that some of the skills you
spent years building, they're
depreciating so fast it's worthless. But
the people who do the inventory, who do
the work, who are honest about which
parts of our work, taste and judgment
matter in, and which parts execution and
process are the only things and which
parts are just execution and process.
Those are the ones who can reallocate
their time toward the things that still
matter before the market forces them to.
If you're waiting for AI to settle down
before investing serious time and
skills, please don't. You will not come
back from that bet. You are making the
same bet as the companies that waited
for cloud computing to prove itself in
2008. Stability is not coming. The pace
is accelerating. It's not slowing down.
And the gap between I use AI tools and I
have rebuilt how I work around what AI
makes possible is really the individual
version of the gap between we added AI
features to the product and we built our
architecture to be agent first. The
first approach feels productive. The
second approach is what is actually
going to change our outcomes. This is
now an agentic world. This is year one.
The $185 billion Google is spending is
not reckless. It's not aggressive. It's
probably not enough. The market is going
to look back on 2026 the way we looked
back at the early AWS data centers, the
first transcontinental railroad, the
fiber optic cables lying in the dark
under the Atlantic. The foundation of
everything that comes next is being
built this year. And it's being laid in
the year that agents proved they were
real. And that matters as much for you
and me as it does for those fancy
companies spending those hundreds of
billions of dollars. Good luck out
there. I put together an agent guide for
this one because because the more we
practice, the better off we're going to
be.